## Goal:
The goal of this assignment is 2 fold
(i) Application of MDS (Multi-Dimensional Scaling) for dimension reduction.
(ii) Create a 4D visualization using Bubble plot.

## Details:

MDS method uses a distance (dissimilarity) matrix to create a low-dimensional representation of high dimensional data. This method does not care how the distance (dissimilarity) is computed. In this assignment we will use the distance between different Indian Cities and compute a 2D representation and use it to layout the cities using the a scatterplot. Note that :
- this exercise is simply to show that the low dimensional representation is meaningful, not to real any dimension reduction. We will actually start with Latitude, Longitude cities! We will later use this data for Geo-visualization.
- MDS does not have N-S , E-W direction knowledge. So, while it creates a meaningful layout, you have to infer N-S and E-W orientations from the final plot.

## Data Preparation:

- Read latitude-longitude of a few (150) Indian cities from an a database (https://simplemaps.com/data/in-cities). The CSV data may be accessed directly from that site as "https://simplemaps.com/static/data/country-cities/in/in.csv&quot;.

- Compute the distance matrix (distance between every pair of cities) using distance.distance method (https://geopy.readthedocs.io/en/stable/#module-geopy.distance) available from python package geopy. 
Example usage:
```python 
import geopy
import distance
D = distance.distance(latlon1, latlon2).km 
```
D will return geodesic distance in km between two locations on earth, where latlon1 and latlon2 are the (latitude, longitude) pair of the  two locations.

- Create a zone column in the data frame to each of the cities based on its admin_name of the city.
Use the following mapping to assign the zone based on the admin_name of the city.
```python :
zones = {    "North": ['Delhi', 'Himāchal Pradesh', 'Punjab', 'Uttar Pradesh',  'Haryāna', 'Jammu and Kashmīr', 'Chandīgarh'],
    "East": ['Bihār', 'Odisha', 'Jhārkhand', 'West Bengal'],
    "West": ['Rājasthān' , 'Gujarāt', 'Goa', 'Mahārāshtra'],
    "South": ['Andhra Pradesh', 'Telangāna', 'Karnātaka', 'Kerala', 'Tamil Nādu', 'Puducherry'],
    "Central": ['Madhya Pradesh', 'Chhattīsgarh'],
    "North East": ['Assam']
}
```
Note: This mapping is specific to the data.


- Use MDS method available from python package sklearn (see https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/generated/sklearn.manifold.MDS.html)
Example use:
```python
from sklearn.manifold import MDS
mds = MDS(random_state=0, dissimilarity='precomputed', normalized_stress='auto')
fit_data=mds.fit_transform(distanceMatrix)
```
By default MDS creates a 2D representation for the data. So, fit_data will contain array of 2D coordinates.

---

## Visualization:

Created a bubble plot for the city to visualization 4D data associated with each city whose 
- 2D positions, two quantitative dimensions, returned by mds.fit_transform; 
- population, a quantitative dimension, available in the original dataframe,  
- zone info, a categorical dimension, generated by admin_name to zone mapping.

Note: Unlike Matplotlib, Plotly has a direct way to create bubble plot using scatter. See https://plotly.com/python/bubble-charts/.


---